what is flutter development
why flutter development is on rise?
IDEs that one can use with flutter
programming language for flutter
how flutter differ from its other alternatives?
roadmap for flutter :-
. beginner 
   .projects
. intermediate
   .projects
. advanced
   . projects

some learning resources 

how to apply for internships?

additional advance skills you can show to differentiate yourself from others



what is flutter development :-
flutter development is a cross platform framework developed by google.
You can create native looking apps with a single codebase using flutter.
native looking app means an app that feels or has UI based on respective operating system like material design for android and cupertino for IOS
flutter was officially launched in 2018
we can create applications for android,ios, windows and even web using flutter
it uses dart programming language which is also developed by google for flutter,
the current version of flutter is 3.29.2,
explanation about widgets in flutter in brief

advantages of flutter:-
1 cross platform development means you only need to write single codebase and it wil take care of building app for multiple platforms like android,ios,etc,
2 It is easy to learn and understand
3 it gives hot reload feature to immediateky check changes we have done in cod ewithout having to build app again and again
4 near native like feel 

disadvantages of flutter :-
1 need to learn new programming language
2 relatively larger size of app 

is flutter development is on rise and why?

. flutter has now mature ecosystem and many larger enterprises has also started to use it for build and deploy real world apps
. flutter has over 1 million active developers globally
. its ability to create cross platform app with single codebase,hot reload feature, near native like UI,extensive library of pre made widgets, etc makes it popular choice for companies and developers
. according to some sources 30% of IOS apps are now powered with flutter
. according to official flutter documentation, it is used to power over one million apps as of may 2023
. some of the companies or apps using flutter are google pay, google earth, bytedance,headspace, etc
. its reliablity as it is build by google 

IDEs that one can use with flutter :-

IDE is integrated development environment it gives all the required tools and features required by a developer to build production level projects 

android studio :-
. Android studio is the IDE for android app and flutter app development developed by google. 
. It has android emulator which simulates real world phone and we can run and test functionality or UI of our app on it in real time
. it facilitate version control with github
. if you have laptop with lower configurations like 4gb RAM and old processors then it can heat up yur laptop or can be laggy or can also freeze sometimes so it is recommended to use it with good configuration laptop such as 8gb(it can stil lag at 8gb too) or 16 gb RAM with lastest processor

visual studio code :-
. It is another widely used contender for flutter development 
. it is lightweight and if you have laptop with lower configurations then you can use vs code instead of android studio for more better development experience and can use your own real mobile device instead of android studio's emulator to test and validate features 
. It has lot of plugins to better your development experience and AI assistance tools to better your productivity
. It also supports effcient integration and versin control with github

intelli j idea - 
. It is not as widely used as android studio or vs code but can still be a option for flutter development
. ...(will do tomorrow)

programming language for flutter :-
. Dart is a programming lanuage used with flutter 
. developed by google for cross platform development
. it is OOPs based programming language like java,c++ with classes,objects,inheritance,etc
. dont worry if you did not understand what is a oops language you will easily understand it when you will learn programming 
. downside of flutter as dart is pre dominantly used for flutter only so you need to learn this language specifically for flutter development 
but it is easy to learn especially if you already know any one programming like c++ or java , etc.
. learning resources for dart programming, oops programming


how flutter differ from its other alternatives :-

. other alternatives for flutter are react native, kotlin multiplatform, xamarin, etc
. out of them only react native and flutter are widely used and rest are not that widely used right now
. so we will tlk about flutter and react native only in it
. in react native we use javascript so it gives advantage for those who already know or work in javascript to firectly jump in and learn it
. I have used both personally, and both have their own set of advantages and disadvantages
. but react native do not provide that much feel of near native application which we get in flutter
. in react native even for basic things like navigation to diffrent page, bottom navigation bar, app dawer,etc we need to use external libraries 
while in flutter many of them comes inbuilt inside we just need to use them
. flutter has larger set of widgets and also platform specific widgets (material design for android and cupertino for ios) while react native primarily uses native components 
which is consistent in looks and design across all platform but for platform specific designs we need to customize them heavily or will have to
use external libraries 
. flutter has relatively faster and smoother rendering
. react native has larger community support as compared to flutter but flutter's community is also big now and is growing rapidly
. flutter lacks native features means something that requires using native device specific features like any sensor, etc is difficult with flutter 
we will need to implement method or event channels for it but it is complicated for implementation

roadmap for flutter :-

beginners :-
. start with learning dart
. learn about basic building block of flutter which is widget and its types
. learn to create a basic splash screen (screen that is displayed immediately after app is opened and stays for a few seconds and then disappear and net screen get displayed)
. 



